# Design Document
This file should discuss how you implemented your project and why you made the design decisions you did, both technical and ethical. Your design document as a whole should be at least several paragraphs in length. Whereas your README.md is meant to be a user’s manual, consider your DESIGN.md your opportunity to give the staff a tour of your project underneath its hood.

## Technical Decisions
### In this section, share and justify the technical decisions you made.
You don't need to respond to all questions, but you might find some of the following helpful:
* What design challenge(s) did you run into while completing your project? How did you choose to address them and why?
* Was there a feature in your project you could have implemented in multiple ways? Which way did you choose, and why?
* If you used a new technology, what did you learn about this new technology? Did this technology prove to be the right tool?

    Originally, we planned to implement our project as a Chrome extension, so we wrote it in JavaScript since that is the language used for Chrome extensions. However, while developing the extension we decided that it was not the right tool for us: Chrome extensions use Manifest V3 and due to security purposes, do not accept functions from external libraries (which we needed in order to read the pdf on the browser). Although Manifest V2 did accept external libraries, the use is still somewhat limited and will be discontinued in 2023. Plus, we thought that most people don't usually open up their pdfs on the browser: it is more convenient to simply upload to a website. So, we changed course and designed a website instead. 
    In searching for a function that could read a pdf, we came upon many different libraries and functions that we attempted to implement. While testing these functions, we encountered some that we could not figure out, returned strange and corrupted text, or had some other issue. Ultimately, we chose our current function because it properly returned the text of the pdf and allowed us to implement call-back functions so we could get the page number of the statements and other information we deemed important for the user. This implementation makes use of the pdf.js library from Mozilla and was adapted from Stack Overflow. 
    Another important technical decision that was made is the choice of our regular expressions. When searching the page text for the statements that we want to create an Anki template for, we decided to look for statements that start with "Definition", "Proposition", or "Example" and come directly before a "Definition", "Proposition", "Example", or "Proof". We chose this regular expression since it limits the occurrence of getting a statement that we do not want to turn into an Anki card. For example, if the word "definition" appears somewhere in the middle of a sentence, it will not be recognized and will not be created into an Anki template. Although this does prevent us from accessing some important statements (such as statements that appear as the last sentence of a page), we decided that the tradeoff in favor of limiting unwanted statements was worthwhile.

## Ethical Decisions
### What motivated you to complete this project? What features did you want to create and why?

    Our motivation to complete this project was to make studying faster and easier for students. We wanted users to be able to upload their notes and get a template for flashcards that they could import into Anki. This would save them so much time in finding and typing up these flashcards themselves; with our project, all they would need to do is clean up some of the math syntax and symbols that the pdf reader could not read perfectly. We wanted our cards to also have a section of the statement hidden so users can study by filling in the blank instead of just reading the statement. Our cards also create a tag for the type of card (Definition, Proposition, or Example) so that the user can keep their flashcard organized. Furthermore, we wanted to add CSS to the cards so the user does not have to look at the boring default design of Anki.
    An ethical concern we could see stemming from this project is one related to piracy. If in the future, this were implemented at a grand scale, how would we approach flashcards created from pirated versions of pdf? We considered that this project would make it faster to create content from pirated files. While this may not be much of a concern since the program does not directly assist in pirating media, we should keep it in mind when moving forward. 

### Who are the intended users of your project? What do they want, need, or value?
You should consider your project's users to be those who interact _directly_ with your project, as well as those who might interact with it _indirectly_, through others' use of your project.

    The direct users of the project are students and others that want to study (math) notes with Anki flashcards. These users need a flashcard set of their notes, and they want it to include all of the necessary parts of the notes and exclude the unnecessary parts. They also value of friendly user interface on the webpage and a well-designed flashcard in Anki.
    Individuals that may interact with our project indirectly are teachers and those that wrote the notes (ex. the author of the textbook. 
    They want the user to learn the material, so it is important to them that this project helps facilitate learning. They would also want to make sure that the project can correctly filter between necessary and unnecessary parts of the notes. Along the ethical issue of privacy, the author would also want to prevent the use of his notes if they were pirated.

### How does your project's impact on users change as the project scales up?
You might choose one of the following questions to reflect on:
* How could one of your project's features be misused?
* Are there any types of users who might have difficulty using your project?
* If your project becomes widely adopted, are there social concerns you might anticipate?

    In addition to the piracy concerns raised previously, there are issues with the smoothness with which individuals can adopt it. People who are not very technologically savvy may find it a bit difficult to use this project. Our project on its own would not be too difficult as it only requires the user to input a pdf. However, this project works in tandem with the Anki desktop app which is difficult to understand. Specifically, the import file function requires you to specify card type, deck, method of field separation, if the card accepts HTML, and the identity of the field. Although the user can read our documentation to see what to click, they might not understand what they are doing which could lead to errors.
    This problem applies to individuals that in general have a difficult experience with navigating technology, but it can also apply to users that are new to Anki. If this project scales up, many individuals could be persuaded to use Anki instead of other flashcard services like Quizlet. These users might experience the same problems since Anki's interphase is more complicated and includes many different options.
